this episode of dnews is brought to you
by ting mobile that makes sense if
you're one of the millions of people who
fears going to the dentist and good news
science has a cure and it's not drugs
it's virtual reality hey guys Tara here
for dnews and I might be one of the only
people on the planet who actually enjoys
going to the dentist it's like a tiny
massage for your teeth but I understand
that's completely weird and if you're
one of those people who hates going to
the dentist then you're in luck a new
study in the journal cyberPsychology
behavior and social networking finds
that virtual reality may be the key to
minimizing pain and anxiety when it
comes to dental procedures this isn't
the first research of its kind in fact
many studies have shown that virtual
reality can help manage pain with all
kinds of procedures like chemotherapy
physical therapy and burn wound changes
still painkillers continue to be the
first-line solution for managing dental
pain but they're not always effective
pain perception is known to have a
strong psychological component which is
why a person needs to be conscious in
order to feel pain
the idea behind virtual reality is that
by distracting the patient and
refocusing their thoughts elsewhere
there's less attention available to
focus on the pain for this study they
recruited five adult patients undergoing
routine dental procedures and they asked
them to fill out a questionnaire able
before and after their treatment to
assess their levels of anxiety and fear
each patient was also hooked up to a
biofeedback device which measured
certain physiological aspects like heart
rate and breathing rate when it came
time for the dental procedure doctors
performed the first five minutes
normally and in the next five minutes
they had patients hooked up to a virtual
reality device not an oculus rift since
that does require a lot of head movement
but a similar device where patients
could navigate through relaxing nature
worlds like beaches and forests and
mountains researchers found that not
only does the distraction of VR help
alleviate pain it also reduces anxiety
surrounding dental procedures but it's
not just the distraction factor that
makes this work other studies have tried
saying if watching a movie can help
minimize pain during dental procedures
but it was found to be only slightly
more effective than no distractions at
all certainly not
enough to be significant and still
nowhere near as effective as virtual
reality so clearly the key here is a
combination of distraction and immersion
the authors of this study say that once
newer better and more immersive virtual
reality worlds are built they could
reduce a patient's pain down to almost
nothing
very cool and hey speaking of cool
things if you're tired of getting
screwed over by your cell phone carrier
then you've got to check out ting ting
is a new mobile service that puts the
power back into the hands of the
consumer there are no monthly plans no
hidden charges and you only pay for the
data you actually use they also have
amazing 24/7 customer service you can
call them any time of day and get a
real-life person on the other line if
you head over to dnews Tang comm you can
check out their savings calculator which
shows you exactly how much money you
would save over the next two years just
by switching and remember every visit to
that link helps support the show so what
have you got to lose
again that is dnews ting calm in the
meantime if you have any questions
comments anything you want to say about
this episode leave them in the comments
below otherwise thanks for watching